# Lead-Lag-Compensator-Quadratic-Optimization
This repository includes Lead Compensator, Lag Compensator, and Lag-Lead Compensator designs to address: Stability Margin (Angle Deficiency), Steady-State Accuracy, and overall performance of an Electric Motor. 
Optimum solution of different compensators is selected via: Quadratic Optimization and Performance Index. 
---
Compensators in control engineering realm are physical elemtns/devices with electronic boards whic mathematically encompass zeros and poles. Multiplying the plant transfer function with such zeros and poles alters the system dynamics and responses. So, compensators can be used to 
loop-shaping (re-shape) the system responses in Bode and Nyquist, Step ... .  
Loop Shaping is a more general technique in controls engineering to add filters (which are again zeros and poles) to the open-loop transfer function to modify system response so that the Dominant Closed-Loop Poles are located the Desired locations in Comple xFrequency (S - Laplace variable) domain. This process is called: Loop-Shaping, Filter Design, Lag/Lead Compensator Design, Pole-Placement (in modern controls), ...
---
Focusing on Compensators: typically there are 3 types of compensators, lead and lag or combination of both. Main difference is: lead compensator's zero is usually closer to the orogin in complex plane, while in the lag compensator, the zero is usually farther from the orogin and pole is closer. Having pole farther from the origin in lead re-shapes the closed-loop transfer functions towards the left-side of the complex plane (adding phase). This loop-shaping enhances system stability particularly at higher frequencies. In contrast, having a pole closer to the origin than a zero, pulls the closed-loop transfer function towards the origin (righ-shift) which makes the system less stable. 
So, LEAD compensator, results in: increased stability margin (specially PHASE margin), improves system response in terms of: reducing rise time (making system fast-responding), increasing the Band Width (BW). All is guarantted by adding phase. 
Lag compensator is usually added to improve the steady-state response by minimizing the offset. The goal of lag is to minimally impact the transient response and only change the steady-state response. (recapp: FRF and TF are for only steady-state and linear responses). This is why it is preferred to have: magnitude of the lag compensator close to 1 and phase contributions should be less than 5 degrees in maximum cases. So, Zero and Pole of lag should be CLOSELY-LOCATED so that their affect over the system closed-loop response in restricted to only: offset at LOW FREQUENCIES. Lead usually increases gain at high frequencies (increases BW, increases phase margin, increases response time); lag increases gain at lower frequencies and reduces gain at high frequencies. Lead should ideally reduce Sensitivity to disturbances (better noise rejection at certain frequencies), lag slightly reduces phase and bandwidth, improves LF sensitivity (better tracking, but mor esensitive to low-frequency disturbances).      
 
